summary:

OVERVIEW:

1. INTRO
2. EXPL. ANA
3. PROB. DEF.
4. STRATEGY
5. CANDIDATE SELECTION 1
6. FEATURE ENGINEERING
	Feature Engineering Strategy
	Location
	Time
	Accuracy
	Z-scores
	Most important features
7. CANDIDATE SELECTION 2
8. FIRST LEVEL LEARNERS
9. SECOND LEVEL LEARNERS
10. CONCLUSIONS

1 INTRODUCTION
	a GOAL:
		predict 3 places(ranked) a person likely to check in to
	b ABOUT DATASET:
		artificial data: >100,000 people on 10 km by 10 km.
		training data: ~ 29 million: location, accuracy, timestamp, and check in location
		test data: ~8.6 million:     location, accuracy, timestamp.
		train and test data are split based on time; no concept of person: all obs. are events.
	c SCORE:
		MAP@3 criterion: 1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 0 score resectively for 3 places, mean average for total score.

2 EXP. ANA:
	for train data:
		more variation in location x than in y: could be related to the streets of the simulated world; for different places, the difference in variation in x and y is different; no obvious spatial x-y pattern.
	time is in minutes: could be converted to hours and days of the week. For train data 546 days, for test data 153 days. Although no spatial pattern was found with respect to the time patterns, ther are however two clear drops in the number of check ins during the train period.
	accuracy is the most difficult part to interpret: may be corralated with the variation in x and y.

3 PROB DEF:
	main difficulty of the problem:
		extended number of classes(places) Why? Because with 8.6 * 10**5 test records, there are about 10**12 places-observation combinations
	Major strategies in the forun: calculate a separate classifier for many x-y rectangular grids; the author's approach: single binary classification model to avoid end up with many high variance models.

4. STRATEGY
	A high level strategy diagram is given.
 	split raw train chronologically, into train(219) and val.(73), with test (287). These three raw data groups are first sample down into batches that are as large as possible.(approx. 30000 on 48GB workstation)

5. CANDIDATE SELECTION
	reduce the number of classes from >100k  to 100 by considering the nearest neighbors of the observations.

6. FEATURE ENGINEERING
	Feature Engineering Strategy:

	2 types of features:
	1st: calculated using only the summary data, such as the number of historical check ins
	2nd: combines summary data of the place candidates with the observation data, such as the historical density of a place candidate, one year prior to the observation.
	All features are rescaled if needed to result in similar interpretations for the train and test features

	Location
	Time
		The second largest share of the features set belongs to time features
	Accuracy
		Understanding the accuracy is the result of generating many plots.
	Z-scores
	Most important features


7. CANDIDATE SELECTION
8. FIRST LEVEL LEARNERS
9. SECOND LEVEL LEARNERS
10. CONCLUSIONS

